# UTBotCpp

## Introduction
UTBotCpp is a powerful tool designed to assist in unit test generation for C and C++ projects. It operates using a client-server architecture and serves as a wrapper for KLEE, which in turn relies on specific versions of LLVM and GCC. This repository uses an example application of UTBotCpp, located in [c-example](https://github.com/UnitTestBot/UTBotCpp/tree/main/integration-tests/c-example).

## Requirements
- Ubuntu 20.04
- Visual Studio Code (VSCode)

## Installation
Follow the installation steps outlined in the official guide:
[Install UTBotCpp Server on Ubuntu](https://github.com/UnitTestBot/UTBotCpp/wiki/install-server-on-ubuntu) (version 2022.12). After completing the installation steps, you can run the server locally or remotely. In this setup, both the server and client are installed on the same machine.

## VSCode Plugin
One of the advantages of UTBotCpp is its integration with VSCode through a dedicated plugin. You can install the plugin using the "Install from VSIX" option inside VSCode.

Follow the official guide for plugin installation:
[VSCode Install and Configure](https://github.com/UnitTestBot/UTBotCpp/wiki/vscode-install-and-configure)

(Note: The server and client must run the same version.)

## Usage
After installing and activating the UTBot plugin in VSCode, open the repository containing your project. The plugin will open a windows to configure the project for testing.

Once the repository is open, tests can be generated by selecting a source file or a set of functions inside a source file, right-clicking, and choosing the option **"UTBot: Generate tests..."**.

### Special Considerations for Ubuntu 20.04
Recent versions have encountered installation issues in virtual machines. Therefore, version 2022.12 was chosen, as it aligns with the tutorial in the project's GitHub wiki. However, to make it work on Ubuntu 20.04, it's necessary to comment out the following lines in the generated test folder:
```c
typedef float _Float32;
typedef double _Float64;
typedef float _Float32x;
typedef double _Float64x;
```

For a better understanding of how to use UTBotCpp, refer to the official tutorial video:
[UTBotCpp Usage Guide](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bDJyWEeYhvk)

After these steps, the tests can be executed directly from the generated test files and the results will be showed in the **UTBot: Test Console**. Also, the source code tested will highlight the lines covered by the test.

